
*** This is the 950105 version of the manual, and refers to v1.80 of 64NET.
GEOS Additions made by Paul Gardner-Stephen 01-Oct-1995
Note that this does not mean this manual is uptodate in all areas!






					64NET Version 1.82.58



				  by Paul Gardner-Stephen
				  

			(C) Copyright Paul Gardner-Stephen 1992-1995
*        (C) Copyright Performance Peripherals Australasia 1995


	Note that this manual, like the software it describes, is still
	evolving, and therefore may not accurately describe the version of
*        the 64NET software you are using/testing.  The manual author will
* endeavour at all times to keep as up to date as the software author will
* let him!  Note that this is not much!  Even having him live in isn't enough,
* he still changes things faster than I can record, and then "abuses" me for
* not keeping up!  <sob!>

	Note also that this manual is going to be thoroughly revised and
	reordered soon...



	Copyright Notice:

		(C) Copyright Paul Gardner-Stephen 1992-1995
*         (C) Copyright Performance Peripherals Australasia 1995

	  The 64NET program software, cable, and manual are copyrighted,
*     and all rights are reserved by Paul Gardner-Stephen and Performance
*    Peripherals Australasia.  This distribution
	of 64NET is intended for use on one fileserving IBM compatible computer,
*    and a maximum of four (4) Commodore 64 compatible
*    computers at any one time.  The original
	purchaser may make one backup copy of the software for the IBM compatible,
	and may copy the 64NET wedge file for the Commodore 64 onto as many of
	the same original purchasers disks or data-cassettes, with a maximum of
*    four (4) iterations of the wedge running at any one time.
*    Lawful users of this product are hereby 
	licenced only to LOAD and EXECUTE the programs included in the 64NET
	distribution, and to READ, EDIT, & WRITE the configuration files of the
*    same, where explicitly mentioned in this manual.  Selling this product
*    without a distribution licence is a violation of the
	law, and a breach of copyright, and the software license of this product.

	It is also an offense to duplicate the 64NET key file provided with
	registered copies.  Further, you may not modify 64NET to bypass the
	checking for a valid key file, nor may you use key files other than
*    those provided by Paul Gardner-Stephen, Performance Peripherals 
*    Australasia, or their authorised nominees.

*    You are permitted to copy the files and documentation provided with
*    64NET, other than the key file, and in fact are encouraged to do so.
*    64NET will only thrive if users are happy with it, and in being happy
*    introduce their friends and other C64 owners to it.

	This manual is also copyrighted, and all rights reserved.  It may not be
	photocopied, reproduced, translated or reduced to any electronic medium
	or machine readable form without prior consent, in writing, from Paul
*    Gardner-Stephen, Performance Peripherals 
*    Australasia, or their authorised nominees.

	The 64NET for GEOS drivers are (C)Copyright Falk Rehwagen, 1995.     
	
	
	
	IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Inc.
	CBM, Commodore 64, 1541, 1571, and 1581 are registered trademarks of
*    Commodore Business Machines Inc.  We're not sure about C65 & C64DX.
	JiffyDOS is a registered trademark of Creative Micro Designs.
*    64NET, 65NET, 128NET, and PetNET are trademarks of Paul Gardner-Stephen
*    and Performance Peripherals Australasia.
	AlterNET is a trademark of Performance Perihperals Australasia.

   
	Warranty:

	  This distribution is provided as is without warranty of any kind,
	either expressed or implied, including, but limited to, the implied
	warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular use, except
	for the use of occupying disk space on the supplied disks.
	  You, the buyer, assume all risks for quality and performance of this
	product, and for any damage, including loss of data, which may occur as
	a direct or indirect consequence of using this distribution of 64NET.
*         In no event will Paul Gardner-Stephen, Performance Peripherals 
*    Australasia, or their authorised nominees
	be responsible for any damages, including loss of profits or other
	incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use of, or
*    inability to use, 64NET, even if Paul Gardner-Stephen, Performance
*    Peripherals 
*    Australasia, or an authorised
	dealer of 64NET has been advised of the possibility of such damages, or
	for any claim by any other party.
	  In some regions the exclusion of implied warranties is forbidden by
	law, in which case the above exclusion may not apply to you.  Should
	any part of this warranty be shown invalid or unenforceable, then the
	validity and enforceability of the remainder of this warranty shall not
	be affected thereby.

	 Table of Contents:
	
	 Copyright notice                                            

	 Warranty                                                   

	 Foreward

	 1. Introduction                                                

	 2. Installation of 64NET                                       
	 - Adding registration details

	 3. Starting 64NET                                              

	 4. Features of 64NET

	 5. 64NET Functions

	    Basic

	    Advanced

*       Server

	 6. 64NET Utilities
	 
		C64
		
		PC

	 7. User Customisation of 64NET

	 8. 64NET Limitations

	 9. 64NET Trouble-shooting Hints & Tips

	10. Programming with 64NET.

	11. 64NET and GEOS
		Introduction
		11.1 Requirements for usiung 64NET and GEOS together
		11.2 Configuring 64NET to run with GEOS
		11.3 Using 64NET to provide the correct time and date on startup
		11.4 Printing on a 64NET printer from GEOS

	Appendices

	 A. Compatibility List

	 B. 64NET Support
*           - Distributors
*           - Obtaining latest releases
	    
	 C. The Future of 64NET

	 D. Constructing the 64NET cable.

*        E. Differences between the Shareware and Commercial releases
	    of 64NET.

	 F. 64NET File Format.

	 G. 64NET Error and Status Messages.

	 H. 64NET Reserved Filenames and their Functions.

	 I. Files provided on the 64NET system disk.

	 J. Installing 64NET permanently in your Commodore 64.

	 K. Glossary.

	 L. 64NET Registration Form.

	 M. Recognised PC filetypes.

	 N. Multi-lingual operation.
	    
*     O. Creating 64NET.64 if you weren't given it on 1541 disk.


	Foreward.

* 64NET began as a concept in my mind in early 1992.  Through 1992, 1993, and
* 1994 I
labored over my keyboard attempting to get the system working just how I
wanted it.  With the advent of beta testers, I soon discovered that there
were more "features" than I had realised in my code, and that the wants and
needs of C64 users were more diverse than I ever could have imagined.

Through 1994 my users have continued to ask for "just one more feature",
whilst I have also attempted to add a few more esoteric options.  The result
is what you have in your hand, and to my users who were never satisfied, I
say a big "Thank You!".  Without you, 64NET would not be half the system
it is.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank a few people and things that
have made this project a reality, in one way or another.  Firstly, my Mother -
"Hey Ma look, I made good!".  Secondly, Datel, for making the brilliant
Action Replay cartridge.  Then in no particular order..
Chris MCEE - thanks for the support in the early days...Gomez - the manual was
worth all the hard work, wasn't it?  :) Michael Renz - thanks for all of your
support and vision of the capabilities of 64NET.

Finally, thanks for considering 64NET, I hope it proves to be all you desire.
I won't say anything about registering this system other than to state that
if the system's good enough, you'll want to register!

Enjoy!

Paul Gardner-Stephen,
November 1994.
	

	1. Introduction:
	
	  The Commodore 64 is, without question, the finest home computer 
	ever released.  Some of the features which made it the leader include high 
	quality audio output, ease of use, the ability to be able to be 
	plugged into a standard television set, and a plethora of arcade 
	standard games available.  Compared to other computers with 
	similar capabilities the 64 was (and still is!) also great value for money.
	
	  However, the major problem with it, which was often pointed out by 
	its detractors, was the slow speed of its mass storage 
	devices such as the datasette and the 1541 disk drive.  In more recent 
	times such devices as the 1571 and 1581 disk drives from Commodore, and 
	various high capacity floppy and hard drives from third party suppliers 
	have improved this situation markedly, although not cheaply.
	
	 Commodore 64 owners have long looked at the cheap storage available 
    to PC owners and bemoaned their inability 
    to take advantage of this, or their inability to use the storage on 
    their home PC for access by their 64.
    
	 NOT ANY MORE!
	 
*        Paul Gardner-Stephen and Performance Peripherals 
*    Australasia are proud to announce 64NET, the cheap, 
    complete system which allows Commodore 64 owners to take advantage of 
    the cheap mass storage available on PCs.  With the price and 
    availability of low-end PCs, 64NET is the cheapest mass storage for the 
*   Commodore 64 available today.  64NET even supports 4 Commodore 64s 
*   from the one PC simultaneously!
    
	 64NET requires no special skills from its users, nor any 
    programming.  In fact, if you purchased 64NET with its interface cable 
    you can be accessing your PC disks from your 64 immediately after loading
    and running the 64NET program, ie. a matter of minutes!

	 With 64NET you can access up to 65535 logical drives on your
    PC server from your Commodore 64 using standard Commodore commands.  There
    is also no limit to the size of the PC drives accessable to the
    Commodore 64, subject to DOS limitations,
    due to the way 64NET interfaces the Commodore 64 to the PC.

	 64NET also supports the command structures of other disk systems
    popular on the Commodore 64, eg. partition and subdirectory access, and
    also allows the user to chose the device number which is the 64NET disk
    drive.

	 Whilst 64NET was developed to allow Commodore 64 owners access to
    the hard drives of their PCs, it is equally happy accessing floppy
    disk drives, CD-ROM drives, and network drives.  In fact, 64NET will
    cheerfully access any device that presents itself as having a DOS file
    system!

GEOS and Commodore 128 haven't been forgotten either, with the recent or pending
releases of 64NET support for both of those systems.  Support for the CBM PET
range of computers is being considered.  More information on all of this can
be found further on in the manual.

It should be realised that 64NET is a generic term used to describe the suite
of software which includes 64NET, 65NET, and 128NET, and that the 64NET system
supports whichever Commodore 8 bit computer you're using in exactly the same,
transparent way.  Wherever you see 64NET mentioned in this manual,
you can rest assured that what is being described works perfectly as well on
your C65 or C128.

The term Commodore 64 where used in this manual is meant to be taken to mean
Commodore 65 or Commodore 128 wherever it is used.  No slight or bias is
implied.



	2. Installation of 64NET:

	  64NET is designed to be as simple as possible to install, and 
	setup.  Whilst none of our testers had any difficulty performing the 
	installation, we advise you to read the installation instructions 
	carefully, and to seek advice where you feel uncertain as to anything
	contained herein.  As pointed out earlier, we take no
	responsibility for any damage caused due to a faulty installation, even
	where such damage is caused by errors or omissions in these instructions.
	
	
2.1     Pre-install Checklist:

	Before attempting to install 64NET, make sure the 64NET distribution
	kit you received from your supplier contains all of the following
	items.

	1. Two (2) floppy disks, with the Commodore 64 (65/128) 64NET wedge 
programs         on one disk,
	and the IBM PC 64NET server software on the other.  The Commodore
8 bit disk will be a 1541 compatible 5.25" disk, unless otherwise specified
with your distributor.  Likewise, the PC disk will be a 5.25" 360k disk unless
otherwise specified.

	2. This manual, in printed format.

*    3. Either the 64NET cable, if you purchased it as part of your
	kit, or a detailed cable construction sheet if you did not.  Note that
	the construction details are also duplicated in appendix D of this manual.

If any of these items are missing, please contact your distributor immediately
to have the omission rectified.

Note: If you did not purchase the 64NET cable then you will have to construct one
	before you can use 64NET.

	
2.2     Hardware Installation:

	1) Turn off both the Commodore 64 and IBM compatible computers.  Failure to do
	this before plugging in the 64NET cable could result in the damage
	of your computers due to shorting.  Again we stress that no
	responsibility will be accepted due to your failure to follow this
	instruction.

	2) Connect your 64NET cable's DB25 connector to one of the parallel 
	printer ports of the IBM compatible computer.  It does not matter which
	parallel port you use if you have more than one, as 64NET will
	figure out which is being used by the 64NET cable! 

	3) Connect the other end of the same cable to the user port of the 
	Commodore 64 (or compatible).  Be sure to connect it the correct
	way up as the user port connector unfortunately is symmetric, 
	therefore making it possible to insert the plug upside down.  The
	simplest way of inserting the cable correctly is to make sure that
	the plug goes in with the cabled pins to the bottom, assuming that this
	component of the plug is visible.  If the plug is protected by a shell,
	then insert it with the labelled side up (this should mean that the
	cable points away from the expansion (cartridge) port, if the shells
	are the same as those obtained by the 64NET test team).

	4) Repeat steps 2 and 3 for each Commodore 64 computer you are connecting
	to your 64NET server computer, up to a maximum of 4 C64s.

	5) Turn all computers back on.

	Congratulations!  You have successfully installed the hardware
	component of 64NET.


2.3     Software Installation:

	Before starting the software installation of 64NET, make sure that you
	have made a backup of your 64NET software disk(s).  Instructions on how
	to do this are not the province of this manual, however write protecting
	the disks will provide some level of safety.
	
	1) The PC server.

Insert the 64NET server disk into the appropraite disk drive, and enter INSTALL
on the keyboard, and press the RETURN key.  A screen like that below in figure
1 will 
appear.  Chose the drive you wish to install the 64NET server on - note that
this cannot be the same drive as you are installing from!  Congratulations,
you have successfully installed the 64NET server software!  See
	Appendix I for a complete list of files which should now be found in
	the 64NET directory on the hard disk.


.<[insert install screen here]>.

Figure 1: 64NET server installation screen.

	2) The Commodore 64.

a) Disk users

Copy the file named "64NET WEDGE" from the Commodore 64 distribution
	diskette to your utility disk, or to a blank diskette.  This will
	become your 64NET work (startup) disk.

If there are programs on the distribution disk with names such as "128NET WEDGE",
or "65NET WEDGE", and you wish to use 64NET with one of these computers, then 
copy those files instead, or also.

Note that the wedge programs can be copied to any form of Commodore compatible
disk drive, or disk drive emulator.  No problems have been experienced in 
loading the wedge from any of the known drive types tested.

  Repeat the above for each Commodore 64 you will concurrently be using with
* 64NET.

b) ROM users

The installation of the 64NET replacement kernel ROM is a moderately simple
task, although it may appear daunting the first time it is attempted.  Put
simply, 

i) Turn off computer and attached periperals.
ii) Disconnect all leads from the computer.
iii) Carefully remove computer's case, being sure not to lose any screws, and
noting where each screw was extracted from.
iv) Locate the kernel ROM in your computer, and after carefully earthing
yourself, remove the ROM chip from the computer carefully, noting its 
orientation (ie. which end the little notch is at).
v) Insert the 64NET kernel ROM, making sure it is firmly pressed in.
vi) After ensuring all internal leads are reconnected correctly, attempt to
power up the C64.  This will let you know whether you have installed the 
replacement ROM before you have gone to the trouble of reasembling your
computer.  You should see a startup screen like that shown below in figure 2.
vii) Assuming that all is going well, remove all leads again, and reassemble 
your computer.

Congratulations, you have now successfully installed 64NET kernel in your
C64!

.<[screen shot here of 64NET ROM startup]>.

Figure 2: 64NET ROM startup screen.

* c) Cartridge users

* [Note that this section is VERY preliminary!!!]

* i) Turn off the C64.
* ii) Insert the 64NET cartridge in the C64's cartridge slot, with the label
*  on the cartridge facing upwards.
* iii) Turn on the C64.  You should see the 64NET sign-on message which
* indicates that 64NET is installed correctly.


	3) Finally.

Place your original distribution diskettes into a nice, safe, cool,
dry place.  Congratulations!  You have completed the 64NET software 
installation.  You are now ready to progress to using 64NET!

2.4   Adding registration details.

	 If you have purchased a registered copy of 64NET initially, then you
	 need not read this section any further, as the normal installation
	 process will automatically detect this.

	 If, however, you have decided to register 64NET after having used the
*     shareware version, rest assured.  Upgrading your version is a
	 simple task, and does not overwrite your current configuration.

	 You will receive a file from your distributor called 64NET.KEY - place
	 this in your 64NET directory in place of any file of that name which
	 may be there.

	 That's all there is to it!  You will now be able to use all the features
of 64NET which were previously unavailable.  You can also feel good about
the fact that your registration is going to help ensure the future of the 
Commodore 64, and of course 64NET!

	 Note that this key file is registered to you, and you alone.  Do not
	 copy or otherwise distribute it.  Each key file is uniquely identifiable
	 so people using unauthrosied copies will be prosecuted, as will those
	 providing the key file. 

	3. Starting 64NET:

	1) Move to your 64NET directory on the IBM compatible, eg CD \64NET

	2) Type 64NET and press the ENTER key.

*  It doesn't matter which machine is started first, since 64NET synchronises
*  with the server on each access by the client.

	You should see a screen similar to that in figure 3, below.


		.....Insert screen shot here.....

	Figure 3, Typical 64NET server initial screen.

	Note that the rapidly "flashing" number on the screen is normal, and
	shows that 64NET is polling each of the possible parallel ports to
	see if a 64NET command has been received.  This occurs whether or
	not your system contains multiple parallel ports or not, and whether
or not C64s are connected to any parallel ports.

	The messages at the bottom of the server screen are explained later,
 eg. F1, F2.
	
*    3) At this point you have 2 choices as to the type of software
* installation used on your C64, assuming you haven't chosen a hardware
* installation, ie. ROM or cartridge.
  The choice you make generally depends on whether or not
	you wish to use software or hardware found to be incompatible with
	64NET.  Examples of this are listed in Appendix A.

	Normally it is expected that you will want to use the 64NET kernel
	replacement software which copies the kernel ROM to the underlying
	RAM, then patches that RAM with the 64NET access routines.  The
	method of doing this is described in part A below.  If you
	have software or hardware which expects to have free access to that
	RAM for its own purposes, then the 64NET kernel software will be
	corrupted by this, and undoubtedly fail!  A possible hardware
	solution to this is described in Appendix J.

	If you chose, or are forced, not to use the 64NET kernel replacement
	software, then you will need to install the 64NET wedge software, as
	shown in part B, below.  Note that you have several choices as to the
	location in memory that the wedge is located, to provide maximum
	flexibility, and hence compatibility, with other software.

	Common to either choice of C64 64NET installation is the
	default device number of the 64NET server.  64NET currently installs
	its server as device 7, by default.  This is done to avoid any possible device
	number conflicts with hardware already attached to your system.
	If, for any reason, you wish to alter the device number the 64NET
	server responds to, then all you need do is alter the value stored
	in location 167 ($A7) to be the device number you wish.  This means
	that 64NET will allow your PC server disk drives to be accessed as
	anything from device 0 right through to device 255!  Of course, not all
	software wil accept such outlandish numbers, and certain numbers
	will cause problems to the operating system.  However, that's where 
64NET's flexibility shines, in allowing you to choose device numbers meaningful
to you.  Should you chose a number already being used by a device on your
system (eg. device 8), then that device will be unavailable until you alter
64NET's repsonse number.


	Part A. Installing the 64NET kernel replacement software.

	   LOAD and RUN the "64NET KERNEL" file on each Commodore 64 which
	   is to have access to the IBM compatible's drives.  This software
will copy your ROM kernel to RAM, patch the RAM to insert the 64NET driver
software, then switch out the kernel ROM.

Using this kernel replacement software makes 64NET "reset proof", in that a
"RUN/STOP-RESTORE" won't stop 64NET from working.  Be warned that any program
which expects to find usable RAM under the kernel will causde your C64 to
"hang".

	Part B. Installing the 64NET wedge software.

	   LOAD and RUN the "64NET WEDGE" file on each Commodore 64 which
	   is to have access to the IBM compatible's drives.  You will be asked
	   where in memory you would like the wedge located.  If unsure, or
	   you have no reason to do otherwise, chose the default location
	   shown by pressing the RETURN key once.

	   If you do not wish to accept the default location, then enter your
	   preferred location as either a decimal, or hexidecimal (preceded by
	   a "$") number.  The 64NET wedge cannot be loaded into loactions
which will place it even partly under ROM, due to the lack of "normal"
	   RAM which the operating system can easily see.

	   Please be aware that an inappropriate choice of
	   location will cause 64NET to fail, and quite likely cause a machine
	   lockup.  The installation component of the wedge will endeavour
to circumvent this, but cannot second guess all uses.

	   If the location chosen does not cause system conflicts, each
	   Commodore 64 will attempt to make connection with the PC
	   server, and then attempt to "auto boot" the "STARTUP n" file from the
	   server, where n is the parallel port number that the particular 
	   Commodore 64 is connected to, eg "STARTUP 1" for parallel port 1.
	   If an individual startup file doesn't exist, then the
	   "auto boot" will attempt to load and run a file called 
	   "STARTUP SEQUENCE", if it exists.  The startup files can be any
	   C64 file which can be loaded and run.  It may contain commands
	   to set 64NET preferences, load your favourite application, or even
	   run a game!  Note that this is a perfect spot to alter the
	   default device number used by 64NET, if that is your desire.

	   Press the C= key when you RUN the 64NET wedge program to override this 
	   boot feature, if you wish to.
	
	   Note that both the filenames mentioned above are illegal PC (8.3)
filenames.
	   They are actually the "real" names of possible files stored under
	   64NET, which allows full 16 character C64 compatible filenames.
You can see the real and stored filenames by running 64DIR.EXE on the PC.
Figure 4, below, shows an example listing from the 64NET driectory.


.<[insert 64dir listing here]>.

Figure 4: Sample listing from 64DIR.EXE.
	

    Irrespective of which installation method you used, success will be
    shown by your C64 displaying a black border, dark blue background, and
    white text, with the following message:

64net......

blah, blah

.<[insert message here]>.

    If the kernel version was chosen you will also notice that a slightly
    different cold start message is displayed on the C64's screen.

    You should also notice that the status field on the server PC has
    altered for one of the displayed ports.  This indicated which parallel
    port address you are connected to, NOT which actual parallel port you
    are physically attached to.  The reason that what you see is not what
    you may have been expecting is that not all PCs map their parallel ports
    to the "correct" locations.

    64NET checks the following addresses as parallel ports 1 through 4.

	Port    Address

	1       $378
	2       $3BC
	3       $278
	4       $2BC

* Note that these are the default ports checked, but you may alter both the
* address and order of these ports by editing 64NET.INI on your PC, in the
* section labelled [Ports].

    Congratulations, you now have 64NET running!  All references to
    device 7 (or whatever device you have set the 64NET server to) are now
    redirected to the logged drive and directory
    on the IBM compatible, and this is also now the default device, just as
    the datasette is the default device on a standard C64, and device 8 is
    on an SX64 or C65.  All disk drives on the Commodore 64 are still
    accessible, unless you have chosen to override them with the 64NET
    server.

    The RS-232 port is obviously now inaccessable, which is considered a
    very minor inconvenience compared to the advantages provided by 64NET!  A
    passthrough version of the 64NET cable and software is being considered to
    overcome this limitation.

	4. Features of 64NET:

	  Now that you have 64NET physically installed on your system, and have
	started the driver software, it is time to cover the many details and
	features of 64NET.
	
		As this version (1.80) is a BETA release, some of the facilities may
*    not always function correctly.  When the commercial release is completed
	you will be sent your update disk (provided your copy of 64NET is
	properly registered, ie. you send in your registration form).
	
	  64NET attempts to logically emulate the 1541 file system as closely as 
	possible, thus providing more than just a file transfer facility.  Note
	that this does NOT mean emulate a 1541 disk drive, eg. access to 1541
	RAM.  All CBM file types are supported.
	  Sector read and write functions are not supported as the emulated file
	system uses common DOS files to store each program or file, to provide
	maximum flexability.  This method means that there is no partitioning,
	"virtual disks", or other means to emulate the 1541.  The end result is
	that subdirectories (8 character names only), and full 16 character file 
	names are fully supported, and each drive may have well in excess of 664
	blocks available, often around 160000 blocks for a 40MB drive (this
	author intends to connect his C64 to a PC on a network just to see the
	truly awesome site of "7812500 block free" [that's 2 Gigabytes!]) .
	  On top of the standard 1541 emulation (at KERNAL level), there are
*    also many other facilities, including fast loading:
*    10 kb / sec on a C64
*    20 KB/sec on a Commodore 128, in C64 mode, with burst loading,
*    and 34 kb/sec on a C65 in C64 mode, with burst loading,
	off board machine code monitor,
	PC to C64 file transfers with exceptional ease, networking facilities
	including passwording and differing access levels, improved loading and
	saving displays (percentage completed, address ranging or normal).
	  Further, due to 64NET's disk drive emulation, there is no limit
	to the number of files that can be stored on a "disk", subject of course
	to the physical size of the actual disk!
	  64NET allows you to access any physical disk drive on the PC including
	floppy drives, hard disks, removable drives, and even CD-ROMs!  Drives
	A: to Z: are assigned by default to partitions 1 to 26 under 64NET,
	although this is easily reconfigurable if desired.  In addition
	to this, any PC subdirectory can also be assigned a logical partition
	name or number, making it simple to access that directory directly.

	5. 64NET Functions:

	Basic Functions

	  Almost all LOAD and SAVE commands which function on a 1541 will
	work correctly, unaltered under 64NET.  64NET however increases the scope
	of these commands, with the inclusion of subdirectory support and DOS
	file exchange.

	i) General differences from a standard C64.

	  Whereas on a 1541 loading a directory has only a few options, in
	64NET there is much more flexibility and choice.  All 1541 directory loading
	options are supported.  The default directory
	load is a directory output almost identical to a 1541, listing all PRG,
	SEQ, USR and REL files (ie. all "CBM" files on the emulated drive), but
	adding the DIR files, which are the subdirectories of the logged drive
	and directory.  Other filetypes which might be seen include IBM, which
	are files that are not definately known to be C64 files of some type.

	  DH0 "/64NET         "  64NET
	  0    "CODE":            DIR
	  0    "TEMP":            DIR
	  0    "UTILS":           DIR
	  0    "GAMES":           DIR
	  0    "DEMOS":           DIR
	  0    "EDUCAT":          DIR
	  0    "DRIVERS":         DIR
	  0    "BACKUPS":         DIR
	  0    "PROGRAMS":        DIR
	  2    "64NET COPIER":    DIR
	  147  "1!FLIBB":         VOL
	  7    "MENU":            SEQ
	  1    "STARTUP 1":       PRG
	  2    "STARTUP 2":       PRG
	  50   "TURBO ASSEMBLER": PRG
	  0    "TACODE":          DIR
	  1    "TEST.SRC":        SEQ
	  0    "TEST2.SRC":      *SEQ
	  67    BLOCKS LISTED.
	  30107 BLOCKS FREE.

	Figure 2, Example directory listing from a 64NET 'LOAD"$ [RETURN]'


	  There are several differences immediately apparent to that of a
	conventional directory listing derived from a 1541.  Examining the
	header line you see something like the following, which can easily be
	interpreted.

	  DH0 "/64NET         "  64NET

	  ^   ^                   ^
	  |   |                    -- Disk "ID", always 64NET.
	  |    -- Current logged directory on PC server.
*   -- Current logged disk drive or partition link on PC server.

	You may notice that there is no disk header, instead the current path
*     on the server (with unix style "slashes", forward instead of backward, ie 
*     "/" not "\") is displayed.  Also note the drive unit number, which is
*     always zero on a 1541 is displayed for maximum information to the user.
*     The "DH0" in the example corresponds to the item defined as DH0 in the
*    partition table mount list in the 64NET.INI file.
	on the PC (0 is reserved for 1541 compatibility).
**   (NOTE: Some types of mounted volumes will result in a 1541 style disk
**   header being present, with a drive or partition of "0".)


	You might also have noticed that "splat" files (marked with a "*") are
	also supported under 64NET!

Here are some things to try:

	LOAD"$:/*,*
* (note you dont need a ,7 or end quote if you dont want to.  If you have a
*   "standard" C64, ie. no JiffyDOS, this will automatically work.  If you have
*  JiffyDOS (for example) then POKE 167, PEEK(186) will make 64NET the default
*  device, but at the temporary loss of whatever device PEEK(186) contained.
	This will display ALL files of all types (IBM & CBM) in the root 
    directory of the logged 64NET drive.

    LOAD"$:/*,PC
    This will display all files in the root directory of the logged 64NET
    drive which are not known C64 files.


    Advanced Functions:

    Disabling and re-enabling the 64NET WEDGE.

    In order to use certain features of your Commodore 64 you may find it
    necessary to disable 64NET temporarily.

    To disable the 64NET wedge, just press and hold the RUN/STOP key, and
    smartly
    tap the RESTORE key.  Your screen should return to the standard power-up
    message and colours.

    To re-enable the 64NET wedge, type SYS 53242 (if you used the default
    location to install 64NET), and press RETURN.  64NET will not
    display any messages to indicate that it is active again at this point.
    If you believe that 64NET is not behaving correctly at this time, then
    entering SYS 53245 (again, assuming the default location) will go through
    the full boot sequence again.

    Built in LOAD commands.

	  These give access to the built-in functions of the 64NET server.

    LOAD"NETWORK STATUS

	Displays the status of 64NET and the C64 you are using.  You
    should see something similar to figure X below.

    ---------------------------------------
    64NET V1.80N BETA
    USER NUMBER: 2
    USER NAME:ANONYMOUS
    PRIVILEGE LEVEL:HIGH
    ---------------------------------------

    Figure X, result of a LOAD NETWORK STATUS.

	LOAD"USER STATUS

	This command requires MASTER level access, otherwise a PRIVILEGE
    ERROR is returned by the server.  If you have appropriate access then
    you will see a display like that below in figure Y.

    Figure Y, result of a LOAD USER STATUS.

    LOAD"DOS STATUS

RJA     Does nothing on my system, apart from thrashing the hard disk for
	a bit.  Then  "09,PRIVELIGE ERROR,03,03" on the server.


    LOAD"MON

	   This is an off board disassember, taking up no additional memory on
	  the Commodore 64!

	   @"command" sends "command" to the default disk drive, eg. @$ will
	get a directory of the drive.
	    Note: try @fruit - who said utilities have to be dull?  :)
	  X or Q will exit from it.
	  A to assemble,
	  D to disassemble,
	  M to view memory in block format,
	  I to view memory as ascii,
	  F to fill,
	  H to search memory (if you're really lucky!!)

    64NET Disk commands:

    "S:filespec"        -    Scratch file(s)
    "UJ"                -    "Reset drive"
    "RDdirectory"      -    Remove empty subdirectory
*   "MDdirectory"      -    Create a subdirectory, below the directory you're
* currently in.
    "CDdirectory"       -   Change current subdirectory, on logged drive.
*   "CPpartition"       -   Change current partition.  Note that this will
*                           take you into the same directory you were previously
*                           in on that drive/partition in this session.
**  "Lfilename"         -   Lock/Unlock file (ie add "<" to dir)

    "I"                 -    "initialize drive" => clear dos message to 00,OK
    "NET:LOGOFF"        -    Log out of 64NET as a "network client"
    "NET:DEFUSER:class" -    Set security class of non-logged in users
				 (one of NONE,VISITOR,LOW,HIGH,MASTER)
    "NET:FILECLASS:class:filename" - Set security on a file to one of the classes
				 listed above.
    "NET:CLASS:portno:class"-Set the security of another user (only MASTER may do
				 this)
**  "O[%-][%+][$+][$-][D+][D-][B+][B-][WR]" - Change various preferences
			%+/%-  - Enable/Disable Percentage display on LOAD & SAVE
			$+/$-  - Enable/Disable Address display on LOAD & SAVE
			D+/D-  - Enable/Disable "directory loading"
			B+/B-  - Enable/Disable Burst Loading
**                      WR     - write the current options back to 64NET.INI 
**                               on the PC, for future use.  This sets your 
**                               future defaults to whatever the current
**                               settings are.


*   Server Functions:

*   Whilst there are not many functions required or available at the server
*   end of 64NET, there are a few things worth knowing.

*   You will notice that the 64NET server screen is divided into 5 windows
*   or zones.  Their names and functions are:

*   Status            - 
*   Registration      - 
*   Current Operation - 
*   Current User      - 
*   DOS Messages*     - 

*   *Note that DOS Messages is the default Server Information window displayed
*   at startup.  You will see that you are offered the choices of F1-F6 on
*   screen.  These allow you to
*   change the Server Information window's display to any of the following:

*   F1 - DOS Messages
*   F2 - System Performance
*   F3 - User Status
*   F4 - User Directories
*   F5 - Client Types
*   F6 - Mounted Volumes

*   The other functions you have available at the server are:

*   ESC - pressing the ESCAPE key will end the 64NET server.
*    !  - pressing the "bang" key will take you into another DOS shell
*         from which you can then enter any DOS commands you like.  Note that
*         whilst you are in another shell, your 64NET clients cannot access
*         the server.
*    K  - pressing the "K" key will "kick out" the current client, as seen
*         in the Current User window, meaning they will have to re-synchronise
*         with the server.


	6. 64NET Utilities

    64NET comes with a number of useful utility programs to enhance your use
    of the system.

    For the C64
    
*   64NETCOPY provides a fast, simple means of copying files between your 
*   CBM drives abd the PC's logged directory, in either direction.

    64NET FILE COPIER (v2.00.1)
	- T/U tag/untag all.
	- "space" to toggle all.
	- "return" to tag file.
	- C to start copy operation.

	Has progress meter!

    MON is an off board monitor/assembler.  Details can be found (for now)
    in the Advanced usage section.

    PC Utilities

Ok, now also included in the PC archive are a few other utilities:

	C64DMON a bodgey X-Tree style sort of thing for the virtual file system.
	64DIR do a directory showing .N64 files a bit better :)
*   CVTN64 will convert several popular PC C64 emulator file formats and
*      normal C64 files to the N64 format used by 64NET.


	The C64DMON has a basic listing exporter for the really keen types.



	7. Customisation of 64NET

*  a) Commodore 64

    As mentioned earlier, when the 64NET WEDGE starts it loads a file from
    the server named STARTUP n, where n is the number of the parallel port
    that the particular Commodore 64 is connected to.  This STARTUP program
    loads into the start of BASIC memory ($0801) and is RUN.  It can contain
    any Commodore 64 BASIC commands, stored as a Commodore BASIC program.

    Some examples of what can be done are:

    Change screen colours, load and access alternate character sets,
    load and run utility programs, load and run games, or just about
    anything else you might like to think of!

*  b) PC server

    Permanent customisation can be performed by editing the 64NET.INI file
**  in the PC's 64NET directory.  This can also be done by issuing a "OWR"
**  command to the PC via 'open15,7,15,"OWR"', or its equivalent.
**  ("OWR" is a composite command which combines the save settings ("WR") 
**  parameter with the set option command ("O")

*   The generic structure of the INI file is as follows:

    [customisation item]
    customisation details
    more details
    [another item]
    details about that

    etc..

*   To disable out an option detail temporarily, without deleting it from the
*   .INI file, place a "#" character at the start of the line you wish to
*   disable.

    The data in the .INI file must strictly follow the order shown below,
    although no detail fields need be present.  Any detail field not present
    will cause 64NET to use the default value shown between brackets after
*   that detail field.  If the brackets appear thus - () - then no default
*   for that field exists.

    Specifically, the items that can be customised are:

    [Security]

	Details are:
	    DefaultClass ()
	    Prompt Logon ()
	    Allow Visitor Logons ()

    [Preferences]

	    Percentage Display ()
	    Directory Load ()
	    Burst Loading ()
*           D64 TEMP ()
*       Debug Mode
*       Transfer Mode
*       Address Display
*       Current Directory
*       Temp Path

*   [Virtual Memory]

*           This section under revision by the author, and will not be
*           available until revision is completed.

*   [Ports]

*           What appears after this item are the addresses on your PC of
*           the parallel ports, in the format "&h<address>".  Note that to
*     stop ports being scanned if they actually have a printer attached to them,
*     simply remove the entry here which refers to that port.

*   [Printer]

*           You can tell 64NET that a printer is attached to a parallel
*           port, and will allow 64NET
*           clients to print via redirection.  This port will not stop that parallel port from being
* scanned unless that port's address is removed from the [Ports] section (above).


**  [Archivers]       - Tells 64NET how to mount various archive types by
**                      specifying the neccessary decompressor/extractor or
**                      mounter.
**      Details:
**
**          3-letter-file-extension unpacker <commandline parameters>
**      Note that the command line parameters *must* include @ and %, which
**      are the archive name and path "@", and the directory to extract the
**      archive into "%".
**
**      eg. ZIP pkunzip @ %

    [Partition Links] - allows you to assign PC devices and directories to
			a particular 64NET partition name or number.
*                       There are no defaults, although the supplied .INI
*                       file assigns partitions A to Z to drives A: to Z:,
*                       plus a few other "interesting" assignments.

	Details:

	    partition_name/number,path

	eg. 7,C;\64net\games assigns logical partition 7 to the games
	    directory under the 64net directory on the C: drive.  Therefore,
	    a CP7 command will take you straight to that directory, no matter
	    which drive and directory you previously had logged.

	    Ralphey's Directory,D:\TM\DOWNLOAD\CBM\SECRET is also quite
	    valid.  Therefore a CPRalphey's Directory command will take you
*           to the specified directory (d:\tm\download\cbm\secret).

	    Note that a maximum of 255 partitions can be assigned, although
	    the partition numbers can be from 1 to 65535.  Partition names,
	    should you wish to use them instead or as well, can be up to 32000
	    characters long!  The comma "," character may not be used as part
	    of a partition name.

	8. 64NET Limitations

    In order for something as wonderful as 64NET to work, certain things
    about the Commodore 64 must be changed, or restricted.  For instance,
*   64NET must occupy some memory on the Commodore 64 (in the wedge version),
    and divert operation
    through itself.  This leads some potential problems.

    Firstly, by occupying memory there will be certain programs which cause
    problems by wanting to use that same area of memory.

    Secondly, by diverting operation, programs which rely on precise timing
    may be affected.

    Finally, programs which wish to install fastloaders or otherwise bypass
    normal kernel disk operations will undoubtedly fail, as 64NET is NOT a
    1541 disk drive!

    As programs are discovered which are 64NET incompatible, they will be
    noted.  Attempts will then be made to either improve 64NET to remove the
    incompatibility, or the offending program's author will be contacted if
    possible to update the program.

*   Note that the 64NET ROM and 64NET cartridge attempt to alleviate most
*   memory conflict problems, but these are not infallable, as some programs
*   may still expect to find certain ROM routines in the locations now
*   occupied by 64NET.  Further, programs which copy ROM to RAM, and then
*   modify RAM may not expect to find 64NET occupying the space it wishes
*   to use.

	9. 64NET Trouble-shooting Hints & Tips

Q.  When I load a file it loads in TWO BYTES UP from where it should.
A.  When the file was converted to .N64 format, the load addr header was not
    processed correctly, try the conversion again.

Q.  Some programs "hang" part way through loading, or don't load all parts
    of a multipart program.
A.  Your program loads into the area occupied by the 64NET WEDGE (default
    $C800-$CFFF).  Try loading the wedge into an alternate area.  This may
	take some trial and error until you find
    a memory location "safe" from your program.

    Another solution is to purchase 64NET-PRO, the plug-in replacement
    KERNEL ROM for the Commodore 64, which eliminates most known loading
    compatibility problems!  Contact your distributor for further details.

Q.  My program loads okay, but hangs when I run it.
A.  Your program is being confused by the altered vectors that 64NET uses.
    The solution is that after the load finishes, reset the vectors by
    pressing and holding the RUN/STOP key, then smartly tap the RESTORE key
    until you see the standard "blue on blue" power up screen.  Your
    program should work fine now.  To reactivate 64NET after your program
    finishes, enter SYS 53242, if loaded into the default location.

	10. Programming with 64NET.

64NET Extended function set
---------------------------------
Dated:  25 May 1994
NOTE: There are various new API calls not documented here! Maybe when the
   development side of 64NET v1 slows down the documentation will have a 
   chance to catch up.

Purpose:  To allow FAST usage of the features of 64NET for applications
	designed with 64NET in mind.

Calling Convention:

	SendChar "X"
	SendChar "Function Id"
	{
	 Parameters
	}
	JMP 64NET_Serve_Loop

	Check A for a nonzero value (or ST)

Functions Available:

	"R" - Read a block of memory from a file (at the current position)
	   Parameters:  low byte-high byte of start address and 
			low byte-high byte of end address.

	"W" - Write a block of memory to a file (at the current position)
	   Parameters:  low byte-high byte of start address and 
			low byte-high byte of end address.

	"P" - Set current position in file
	  Parameters:  "I" if setting input file
			  "O" if setting output file
			  32bit (least significant byte first) value for new
			  file position.


	11.  64NET and GEOS

		It seems that C64 users either feel that GEOS is a God-send or is 
	from the deepest pits of Hell.  However, this is not the place for a 
	"holy war" over whether GEOS is good, bad or otherwise, as it is clearly
	one of the most powerful and useful applications ever devised for the 
	C64 (whether you like to use it or not).
		64NET now has relatively extensive capabilities for use 
	inconjunction with GEOS.  If you follow the relatively simple steps below
	you too can have the sheer convienience of rapid access to upto 255 1581
	emulation partitions (thats over 200MB!), without even having to look at
	a box of disks!

		The 64NET drivers for GEOS were written by Falk Rehwagen, and are
	his copyright 1995.  They are provided in this package only if you 
	request them, and pay the additional royalty.


	11.1 Requirements for usiung 64NET and GEOS together

		If you are using GEOS on a C64, you will be familiar with the need
	for some form of RAM expansion if you intend to use more than one disk
	drive type, eg a 1541 and a 1581.  As 64NET is neither a 1541, 1571 or 
	1581, it is automatically a "different drive type" to the one you start
	GEOS from.  This leads to the logical conclusion that to use GEOS and
	64NET on a C64, you need a RAM expansion.  If you have no RAM expansion,
	then it is, of course, strongly suggested that you purchase one.
		Performance Perihperals suggest either a RAMDrive, or a
	BBG (Battery Backed GeoRAM).  Both of these units should be available 
	from your 64NET dealer.  The main advantage of these RAM expansions over
	a standard commodore REU is that they have battery backup, so you can
	restart GEOS from RAM, even after you have turned the computer off and
	on again.

		Also, it is suggested that the IBM running 64NET should have a 
	decent amount of free hard-disk space, and, preferably, running a disk
	cache.  The disk cache will help 64NET run even faster when fetching 
	GEOS data which is regularly accessed.  However, having said this, it is
	still possible to run 64NET and GEOS together on a system which consists
	of perhaps a 4.77MHz XT with 512KB of RAM, and a single 720KB floppy 
	drive.  Of course, performance will suffer, but it will work.

	11.2 Configuring 64NET to run with GEOS

	NOTE: This section assumes you have already installed 64NET and have it
	working correctly under BASIC.  If you do not have 64NET installed, refer
	to the relevant section in this manual, or contact your 64NET distributor
	if you are having difficulty.

	Step 1:  Seting 64NET up
		From your 64NET directory on the IBM, run the programme called
	64NETCFG.EXE.  This programme provides an easy interface for seting up
	some of the more fiddly facets of 64NET.  
		Select the option "Virtual Mount" from the pick list on the left
	by using the cursor keys.  The right hand side will now display some
	brief explanatory messages, below which, in bold will be a single line
	of text.  Press ENTER until this line changes to something similar to:

		64NET will virtualise the Quick Mounts for GEOS

	When you have done this press S to save your changes.  You may now 
	press the ESC key and return to DOS.
		64NET is now setup to operate with GEOS.

	Step 2:  Seting GEOS up
		Start GEOS from your C64 or C128 as you would normally, using a
	*COPY* of your boot disk.
		On your 1541 or 1581 diskette which you received with 64NET, you 
	will find there are several GEOS files.  Copy the files "64NET MGR",
	"64NET MOVE" and "64NET CONFIG" to your GEOS boot disk.  
		Run the file "64NET MGR".  This will display the list of 64NET
	"partitions" (ie disk images) which are available for use by GEOS.  If 
	there are none, then create a new one.  The create menu is under the 
	option bar.  Select the appropriate type, and name from the dialogue
	box prompts.  You may create upto 255 partitions.  Once you have created
	enough partitions to make you happy, return to your desktop.
		Run the file "64NET CONFIG".  It will display a list of disk drives, 
	and their availability, indicated by either a clear (available), hashed
	(unavailable) or filled (already in use by 64NET) box.  If there are no
	drives which are available, quit 64NET CONFIG and run your CONFIGURE file 
	to make atleast one drive available, then run 64NET CONFIG again.  Click
	on the box of one of the available drives, the box should changed to 
	filled, to indicate that it is now marked for use by 64NET.  Once you 
	have a drive marked for use by 64NET, select Save Configuration from the
	GEOS menu, then quit back to your desktop.  
	
		You should now be able to see, and use the 64NET drive(s) as though 
	it were a normal GEOS drive!  If you start GEOS from this disk (which
	you have copied the 64NET drivers onto) now, it will automatically 
	access 64NET if available, or ignore it if it cannot find a 64net server.
		If you have a RAM expander it is suggested that you use the RBOOT
	file which is appropriate to that expander, to allow *very* fast loading
	of GEOS initially. Note that, at this stage, you cannot start GEOS 
	directly from 64NET.


	NOTE: While the 64NET drivers for GEOS emulate the disk drives closely,
	there are a few minor differences.  The most pronounced being you cannot
	use the disk menu to format a 64NET partition.  This should however
	cause no hardship, as you can still delete the files on a disk, and
	rename it if so desired.


	11.3 Using 64NET to provide the correct time and date on startup

		As most IBM compatibles have a realtime clock installed, it is a
	logical feature to provide a means to access this via 64NET for use with
	GEOS.  
		To use this feature, simply copy the autoexecute file "64NET TIME"
	to your GEOS boot disk.  Then whenever you start GEOS from that disk it
	will ask the IBM for the correct time and date, automatically, and with
	out displaying an annoying prompt.   If at anytime after boot you wish 
	to ensure you are on the correct time, simply run 64NET TIME from your
	desktop.


	11.4 Printing on a 64NET printer from GEOS

		If you have told 64NET that you have a printer installed (using the
	64NETCFG.EXE programme), you can configure GEOS to print from this
	printer.  This is useful if you normally have a printer connected by a 
	GeoCable, and 64NET is now taking that port.
		Copy the files 64NET PRINT and 64NET SET to your GEOS boot disk.
	64NET SET is an autoexecute file which patches the GEOS kernel to allow     
	printing to a 64NET printer.  64NET PRINT is used to patch your present 
	printer driver to print to the IBM printer.  This programme works with
	most drivers, and will prompt you for a new name for the patched driver
	(leaving the original intact and unaltered).
		Once you have a patched driver, make it your current printer driver,
	and you are then able to print to the 64NET printer!



	Appendices

	 A. Compatibility List

	 B. 64NET Support
*           - Distributors
*           - Obtaining latest releases

	 C. The Future of 64NET

	 D. Constructing the 64NET cable.

*        E. Differences between the Shareware and Commercial releases
	    of 64NET.

	 F. 64NET File Format.

	 G. 64NET Error and Status Messages.

	 H. 64NET Reserved Filenames and their Functions.

	 I. Files provided on the 64NET system disk.

	 J. Installing 64NET permanently in your Commodore 64.

	 K. Glossary.

	 L. 64NET Registration Form.

	 M. Recognised PC filetypes.

	 N. Multi-lingual operation.
	    
*        O. Creating 64NET.64 if you weren't given it on 1541 disk.


	A. Compatibility List

	Does 64NET work with...

	1.  Jiffy DOS

*        Partly.  the "Ctrl-D" function fails to recognise 64NET as a valid drive,
    but most of the loading
	procedures work.  Negotiations are underway with CMD to hopefully
*       enter into joint development, or at least make 64NET more JiffyDOS
*       friendly.

	2.  Action Replay Cartridge

	    Also partly.  Most of the loading procedures work, but the
	directory function only accesses the "real" device 8.

	3.  GEOS

*           Yes!  A team of German programmers have recently completed a
*        patch for GEOS to make it 64NET compatible.

	4.  C-128 & C-65

	    In C64 mode, yes.  In native modes, not yet.  It is being
	worked on.  Note that the C64 wedge source code is available as part
	of every 64NET distribution, should you wish to make it compatible
	with some device or program of your own.

> 1. Where does the C64 end software load, and what does it get in the way of? 
>    What programs do and don't work.

The wedge programme default loads from $c800-$cfff (approximately).
We am working on
making some replacement "64NET" roms for the C64 that will make it
100% transparent, but with out drive bumping, and with conventional
serial comms also. (possibly at the expense of rs-232 on the user
port coz they cant both be used at the same time (ie switch roms like
an amiga!)

> 3. What about CP/M mode on the 128?

Hmm, different CPU!
I'd have to re do the code in Z80, but i cant see why it shouldn't
work, pv i got some info on the file system, and where the wedges
would have to go etc..



	B. 64NET Support


	The author of 64NET is dedicated to the support of 64NET, and
    welcomes your feedback, either in the form of suggestions for
    improvements to 64NET, or reports on problems with its use.  Naturally
    only registered users can expect any formal response to problem
    descriptions.

	You should contact the distributor you purchased 64NET from in the
    first instance with any questions.  If the distributor cannot answer
    your question they will refer it to the author.
    
*       Should you be having trouble with your distributor, which are related
*   to 64NET, then feel free to contact the author for assistance in resolving
*   these problems.


*   64NET Distributors

*   The only authorised 64NET distributors are Performance Peripherals.  Their
*   contact people and numbers are listed below against their geographic
*   regions.

*   Australasia:
*      Russell Alphey
**     (Phone +61 3 9427 8558)
*      email: *under change*
    
    Europe:
*      Michael Renz
**     (Phone +49 2227 3221)

*   North America:
*      Peter Fiset
**     (Phone +1 518 436 0485)
*      email: p.fiset@genie.com

*  The software author can be contacted directly in a number of ways -

    Voice:         +61 8 277 7479
    BBS:           +61 8 277 1361 (answer all questions for instant d/l access)
		The BBS carries the latest support files for 64NET, as well
		as a "problems" database with solutions.
*   Internet    gardners@ist.flinders.edu.au
    AlterNET    64net@fairlight.ppa.org.au
    Snailnet:  Paul_Gardner-Stephen@1_Hurst_St.Morphettvile.SA_Australia_5043
		(Australia)

	The manual author can also be contacted several ways -

    Voice:      
			   +61 3 94278558 (AH)
    Fax:        
*   Internet:   
		Russell.Alphey@p1.f100.n638.z3.fidonet.org
    Fido:       Russell Alphey at 3:638/100.1
    Snail:      Russell_Alphey@439_Punt_Rd.Richmond.Vic_Australia_3121
    
    
    
*   Obtaining latest releases of 64NET.

*   There are several ways of obtaining the latest version of 64NET.
  
*   1. 64NET Distributors.
  
*   Note that it is not your distributor's responsibility to provide you 
with updated versions, nor even to inform you of their existance.  They 
will, however, provide you the latest version of 64NET upon registering.

Nevertheless, all distributors will carry the latest version of 64NET 
available to them.  They will be happy to provide you with 64NET updates for 
a nominal copying and mailing charge.

*   2. Internet & AlterNET FTP sites.

We will endeavour to place the latest version of 64NET onto the popular C64 
FTP sites, such as:

watson.mbb.sfu.ca, ftp.funet.fi, and ccnga.uwaterloo.ca

The official AlterNET site is:

	fairlight.ppa.org.au

We will be more than happy to maintain up to date copies of 64NET on any 
other site that will have it.

*   3. BBSes, including FREQing .

The latest version of 64NET will always be available from the author's BBS.

Fishbowl BBS:   +61 8 277 1361 (answer all questions for instant d/l access)
			 The BBS carries the latest support files for 64NET, as well
			 as a "problems" database with solutions.
			 
			 Magic name: 64NET
			 
			 Note!  At present the BBS is not being configured as a 
			 Fidonet compatible system, so some pain may be experienced 
			 in attempting to access it as a Fido node.
			 
A number of other BBSes are known to carry 64NET, which is kept up to date 
by Phil Heberer (thanks Phil!)  These are:

221B Baker Street:
			 
			 Magic name: 64NET
			 

Cee-64 Alive!:
			 
			 Magic name: 64NET
			 

Again, we would be happy to add to this list!

*   4. Internet mail.

A copy of the latest version of 64NET will be emailed to you, uuencoded, at 
your request if you send appropraite email to any one of the following 
people.
			 
*   gardners@ist.flinders.edu.au



	C. The Future of 64NET

customise dir separator?
64netpro - ROM / serial
128-cp/m mode
65mode
Pet mode
Amiga version


	D. Constructing the 64NET cable.

	The 64NET cable requires no special skills to create, except
    confidence in your own soldering ability.  A person will rudimentary
    soldering skills ought to be able to build a complete, working cable in
    under 10 minutes.

	Parts required:

	1 * CBM User Port female adaptor (mandatory)
	1 * DB25 connector, of suitable sex for plugging into your parallel
	    port - usually male (mandatory)
	1 length of 9 wire (minimum) cable [preferably shielded] (mandatory)
	    note that about 4 metres of cable is advised for maximum
	    flexibility, but you would should consider your own computer
	    layout.
	solder (mandatory)

	1 * CBM User Port adaptor back shell (optional)
	1 * DB25 back shell (optional)

	The back shells protect the solder joints, by providing a secure
	place to grip whilst removing the cable ends from the computers
	which reduces the strain on the joints.

    The pinout for the cable is:

	Userport        PC Printer port
    CBM name
	-------------------------------
	A (GND)         25 (GND)
	C (pb0)         10 (an input line)
	D (pb1)         11 (an input line)
	E (pb2)         12 (an input line)
	F (pb3)         5 (data bit 3)
	H (pb4)         6 (data bit 4)
	J (pb5)         7 (data bit 5)
	K (pb6)         8 (data bit 6)
	L (pb7)         9 (data bit 7)

    It is very simple to make!  Just solder the individual wires to each
    adaptor, making sure that each wire is connected to the correct pins
    at each end, and that there are no touching wires.

    This author was able to make a working cable, first time, on only his
    second attempt at soldering.  However, if you do not feel confident
    that you will be able to successfully build a 64NET cable, then contact
    the distributor from whom you purchased 64NET, and they will provide
    a 64NET cable for a nominal fee.

*    E. Differences between the Shareware and Commercial releases of 64NET.

*   The shareware and commercial releases of 64NET are identical, with two
*   exceptions.

*   1. You cannot save from the C64 to the PC, in any form.
*   2. You cannot print to a redirected printer.  This only affects GEOS users
*      at this stage anyway.

*   Apart from that, you will notice nothing has been left out, or crippled.
*   There are also no "nag" screens insisting you register 64NET.
 

	F. 64NET File Format

*   64NET v1.xx .N64 File format
    ---------------------------------

$0000-$0002 -  "C64"
		  Note: Used to identify file as being a valid 64NET archive
$0003       -  64NET File format version
		  Note: Current=$01

Current use for version $01 files:

$0004       -  1541 equivalent file type

		  Valid types are:  $x0=DEL
				 $x1=SEQ
				 $x2=PRG
				 $x3=SEQ
*                                $x4=REL
				 $x5=DIR
				 $x6=VOL

		  Note: Assigning a file as a REL, DIR or IBM type could have
			strange side effects and is not recommended.
$0005-$0006 -  Load Address (for ,8,1 loads) in standard CBM "low byte, high
		byte" format.
$0007-$000A -  32bit file length in bytes (NOT blocks).  This is also stored
		in low through high byte format.  Therefore the filesize
		is actually
		($07) + 256 * ($08) + 65536 * ($09) + 16777216 * ($0A) bytes.
		It is rather unlikely that any legitimate C64 file will ever
		have a value other than 0 (zero) in $0A!

$000B       -  64NET Network security level ($00 = none)
		  Note: if this value is >MASTER then the file is completely
		  inaccessible, except through the disk monitor.
$000C-$001E -  Reserved for future enhancement
$001F-$002E -  16 character file name padded with $00's
* $002F       -  Blank.
* $0030-$00FB -  Reserved for future enhancement
* $00FC       -  Start of actual file body
		 (including load address/first two bytes of SEQ/USR file)


	G. 64NET Error and Status Messages.

	Conventional 1541 responses are given by 64NET, but these are not
	shown here.  Please see your 1541 disk drive manual for a list of
	other (standard) status messages which are not listed.

00, OK,00,00                   - OK!
00, WELCOME,00,00              - User logged on with network access
00, GOODBYE,00,00              - User logged off from system

* 00,"message",nn,00           - Talk disk command

01, FILES SCRATCHED,nn,00
02, NO FORMAT,00,00            - You cannot format a PC drive from the C64
03, NOT 4040,00,00             - The 4040 drive D command (duplicate) is not
				   supported by 64NET
04, OPTIONS SET,00,00          - Attempt to alter system option succeeded

05, SUBDIRECTORY EXISTS,00,00  - Attempted to create a dir that already exists
05, YEAH - RIGHT!,00,00        - Attempted to create a directory with no name. 
06, SUBDIRECTORY CREATED,01,00 - Attempt to create a dir successful
07, SUBDIRECTORY REMOVED,01,00 - Attempt to remove a dir successful
08, DIR NOT FOUND,00,00        - similar to "file not found" for directories

09, PRIVELIGE ERROR,01,00      - Unauthorised access to "system" files
09, PRIVELIGE ERROR,02,00      - Attempt to save with VISITOR access.
09, PRIVELIGE ERROR,03,01      - Unauthorised attempt to use "MON"
09, PRIVELIGE ERROR,03,02      - Unauthorised attempt to use "NETWORK STATUS"
09, PRIVELIGE ERROR,03,03      - Unauthorised attempt to use "USER STATUS"
09, PRIVELIGE ERROR,04,00      - Unauthorised access to network
09, PRIVELIGE ERROR,05,00      - User not allowed access to file

10, SYNTAX ERROR,00,00         - Error in "NET:" disk command

* 73, 64NET V1.80.00N BETA 1586(TM),00,00 - Power-up message.

	H. 64NET Reserved Filenames and their Function.

	All of these facilities are accessed by LOADing the filenames listed
	below.  Note that if you chose to save files with these names, then
	your files are inaccessable from 64NET.  This is to ensure that
	the 64NET facilites are always available.  If you do save files
	with 64NET reserved names, then you will have to "repair" their names
	using the 64DMON program's (R)ename function.

	Filename         Function
	========         ========
	MON            - Offboard memory monitor
	DIR            - Loads full path and drive information
	SYSTEM OPTIONS - Displays (not loads) the current preferences
	NETWORK STATUS - Display info about yourself (not load)
	USER STATUS    - Display info about all users (MASTER access required)
	DOS STATUS     - LOAD the current DOS message (this does not clear
			 the message however)

	I. Files provided on the 64NET system disk.

	1. C64 files

	    64NET WEDGE
	    64NET KERNEL
	    PATCH-ROM

	2. PC files

	    64NET.EXE
	    DEHEADER.EXE
	    64DMON.EXE
	    64DIR.EXE

	J. Installing 64NET permanently in your Commodore 64.

	WARNING!  The process described below will,

	    a) Void any warranty on your C64,
	    b) Possibly damage your C64 is done incorrectly,
	    c) Frustrate you if you would like to install 64NET permanently
		  in your C64, but can't (for one reason or another), and
	    d) Possibly make you a little more aware of the insides of your
		  C64!

	At this point in time the author has not been authorised to provide
    modified copies of CBM's C64 kernel ROM.  To do so without express
    permission would be in breach of CBM's copyright of that ROM, as what
    would be distributed is most substantially the work of CBM.

	However, relief is at hand!  If you have access to an EPROM reader
    and burner, then you can create your own, legal copy of a 64NET compatible
    kernel ROM.  Here's how...

	Firstly, use the EPROMMER to read your kernel ROM, and save a copy
    to disk.  Then, run the "PATCH-ROM" program provided on your 64NET
    distribution disk, following the instructions shown on the screen.
    Finally, burn a new EPROM with the patched kernel (named KERNEL.64NET).

	That's all there is to it!

	If you don't have access to an EPROMMER, then your 64NET distributor
    *may* be able to assist you in this regard, but we make no guarantees
    of this.

	K. Glossary.

logged drive - the PC server disk drive that 64NET is currently accessing.
logged directory - the (sub)directory of the PC server that 64NET is currently
		    accessing.
wedge - a program loaded onto the C64 which is "wedged" into the operating
		    system in order to alter normal operations.
kernel replacement - a program or ROM chip which is used instead of the
		    kernel ROM provided with the C64, eg. JiffyDOS.
DOS - Disk Operating System.  Also a commonly used abbreviation for the
		    operating system used on PCs.

	L. 64NET Registration Form.

	Please take the time to fill in this form, and return it to
    the author.  It will ensure that any updates to 64NET are forwarded
    to you, and that in the event of a problem with a distributor, you
    will still receive support for 64NET.  Only registered purchasers will
    receive update notifications.

    Name:

    Street Address:
    City / Town:
    Country:
    Post/Zip code:

    Your email address, or fidonet node:

    Contact phone number (optional): [..] (...) ...-....
	[country] (area) local-number

    Your 64NET Distributor:

	Thank you.  If you could also fill out the following survey questions,
    it will help us make 64NET even better!

    Where did you hear about 64NET?


    What did you hear about 64NET?




    What do you like about 64NET?


    What do you dislike about 64NET?


    Would you recommend 64NET to other C64 owners?


    Why/why not?




	Thank you again for taking the trouble to answer the survey.  Please
    post the completed form to:

    Paul Gardner-Stephen
    1 Hurst St
    Morphettvile
    South Australia 5043
    Australia

    or you can email it to:

*   gardners@ist.flinders.edu.au

	M. Recognised PC filetypes.

	As at V1.71beta, 64NET recognises the following "standard"
    filetypes on the PC as containing valid C64 files, as part of its
    virtual file system (VFS), and can therefore allow you, the user, access
    to the files contained therein.

*   Note that you can load other filetypes into your 64 via 64NET, but 64NET
*   has no prior way of knowing that these files are, in fact, 64 compatible.
*   Eg. machine code files which load at $C000.

	.N64 - 64NET's own, preferred filetype.
		(64NET will only save as .N64 filetype)

*       .T64 - C64S PC tape files.
		The .T64s don't have the C64 filename stored in them
	    correctly in all cases, so the 64NET displayed filename may
	    not be absolutely descriptive.
*       .D64 - C64S PC disk files.
*               These files are 1541 disk images.  64NET extracts the actual
*           files from the disk, and stores them in a temporary subdirectory.
	.P00
*       "zipcode" - ie. the "1!<name>" files which are just a compressed
*           representation of a 1541, created on a 64.  They are handled in
*           the same way as .D64 files.  Note that the zipcode source files
*           on the server must be "raw" files, not .N64 files.  If this is
*           not the case, then you can use the convert program provided.
	"raw" - ie. files which are plain CBM $0801 loading files.
	The author is also working at enabling recognition of other known
*   filetypes, as these are brought to his attention.

	N. Multi-lingual operation.

*       The file 64NETMSG.nnn (where nnn is the numeric country code)
*   in the PC directory contains almost every message
*   that 64NET will ever display, translated to the native language of that
    country.  These messages can be altered to display
    anything you wish, including in languages other than that which you
    originally received it.

	Hopefully your distributor has already provided a copy of this
    file in your native tongue.  The 64NET team would be pleased to
    receive copies of 64NETMSG converted to languages other than English,
    but be warned we will make sure that the messages contain the original
    meaning, and are not abusive, or offensive!

	Files on your distribution disk named 64NETMSG.xxx contain a copy
    of the 64NETMSG file already converted to the language indicated by
*   'xxx'.  Eg., 64NETMSG.001 contains a U. S. version of
*   64NET.MSG, and 64NETMSG.061 contains an Australian version (which are,
*   of course, the same!).

	Suffixes adopted by 64NET for the MSG files include the following.
    Please be aware that they only indicate the language which is contained
    in the particular MSG file, *IF IT EXISTS ON YOUR DISK*.  It is not an
    indication of which languages 64NET.MSG has been converted to!

*   001 - U.S.A.
*   044 - Great Britain
*   061 - Australia

*       64NET will attempt to determine which country your PC has been 
*   configured for, and then load the appropriate message file.  Where that
*   message file doesn't exist, the ".061" file will be loaded by default.
*   Should you wish to load, for example, a German language message file,
*   and one exists, but it's not considered your countries native tongue,
*   then you only need copy the German language file over your country's,
*   or over the default.

*    O. Creating 64NET.64 if you weren't given it on 1541 disk.


*  To use 64NET you must first find a way to transfer the 64NET.64 file if you
*  are using 64NET with a C64 or C128, or 65NET.64 if you are using a C65/C64DX,
*  from the IBM compatible disk to the Commodore machine.
*    Common methods employed include the following:

*       * NULL-MODEM cable in conjunction with terminal software on the C64 and 
*  IBM compatible & a suitable RS-232 interface for the C64/C65/C128.   
*       * BIG BLUE or LITTLE RED reader programmes for the C128/C64 to transfer
*  the file directly using a 1571 or 1581 commodore disk drive or compatible
*  unit.
*       * COPY CARD for the IBM compatible computer to allow read and writing
*  1541 and 1581 diskettes in a PC drive. (These units are difficult to find)
*       * X1541 PC-1541 interface system to directly connect a 1541 floppy drive 
*  to an IBM compatible computers printer port.

*                                     or

*       * Type in the 64NTTRAN.BAS file included in this distribution onto your
*  Commodore 64/65/128, and SAVE to floppy disk.  Also copy the 64NET.64 file to
*  your 64NET directory if it is not already there.  Then add the following two
*  lines to the 64NET.INI file:

*  [Preferences]
*  TRANSFER MODE
  
*    Then run the PC software and also run the 64NTTRAN.BAS file which you typed
*  in (on the C64/C65/C128).  Several messages should be displayed, and the file
*  will be transferred to your device 8 disk drive.  This may take upto 10minutes
*  but it will do the trick!
*    Once the transfer is complete exit 64NET on the PC by pressing ESC - note 
*  this may take several seconds as 64NET will be operating in "slow" mode 
*  (which allows connections from BASIC to function correctly).  Remove the two
*  lines from your 64NET.INI file which you added at the begining of this
*  procedure.
*    64NET will now function normally if you LOAD and RUN the 64NET.64 file from
*  your diskette (NOTE: you must be in C64 mode on a C128 or C65/C64DX). You may
*  then copy the C128 or C65/C64DX native mode wedges to your diskette for 
*  starting 64NET from those computers' native modes.

*  *** If you are unable to transfer the file yourself contact your local 64NET
*  distributor and they will be able to provide you with a 1541 or 1581 diskette
*  with the file for a nominal fee.

*  NOTE: If you have purchased the 64NET system as a complete package from a
*  registered 64NET dealer you should have received a 1541 or 1581 diskette with
*  the appropriate files.








*** Junk to add into manual.
1)

LOAD "VMEM:xxxx:yyyy:zzzz"
SAVE "VMEM:xxxx:yyyy:zzzz"

xxxx = page number of first mem page to load/save ($0000-$ffff)
yyyy = first address to load into/save from
zzzz = last address to load into/save from

This will allow 16MB of Virtual memory!
A partition will have to be allocated as the "swap drive", and this can still
be used for nthe normal VFS also.. The VMEM file will get as big as you swap
into it! and will _NOT_ necessarily be deleted at the end of a session
(wow! - `battery backed' RAM! :-)

3) Fakey sector operations if i really feel upto it (fake copy protection ?)

